imagine a world powered not by coal oil
or natural gas but by the Sun sounds
like a fairy tale right well it's
actually not that far from becoming a
reality you know but it's also not as
simple as it seems
solar panels are one of the driving
forces of modern sustainable energy I
mean when you think about it that big
ball of burning gas is the ultimate
generator plus most of the planet enjoys
its light every single day at no cost
whatsoever
solar panels transform the sun's mighty
light into electricity that we can use
we already have this technology I'm not
talking sci-fi here so why don't we put
these things up everywhere cut our
dependence on sources of energy that
pollute our planet and go totally
renewable again it's complicated
first of all solar panels require space
sure they're not gigantic constructions
a single home utility panel measures on
average about 65 by 39 inches but one of
those panels is just about enough to
light a few lightbulbs that means to
power a whole house you'll need more
panels actually anywhere from 10 to 50
or even more in some cases now just
imagine putting up so many 15 square
foot plates for the sake of powering a
single home and how many will it take to
power a whole city or a whole country or
the whole world for that matter secondly
solar panels can't be installed just
anywhere since they collect sunlight
they need a place where there's a lot of
it every day that's why some regions of
the world just aren't suitable for these
things and that doesn't only include sub
Arctic regions with their long cold
polar nights sunlight is best served
pure and clear to get the maximum
efficiency from solar panels if a
region's climate is mostly cloudy then
they won't be able to produce as much
energy as they could in Sun
conditions so this brings certain
limitations on where you can install
these panels bummer huh and last but not
least is the cost of installation of
course the whole point of installing
solar panels now is to cut cost down the
road as well as help the environment of
course but the original expenses are
sky-high
to build and install enough panels to
power a decent-sized city you'll need
hundreds of millions of dollars not many
governments or corporations would be
happy to fork over so much dough in one
go so if a quest for renewable energy
for everyone will ever be completed it
will require the financial support of
many countries and companies at once
yeah good luck getting everybody on the
planet to cooperate well what do we have
seems like we need a large enough open
space where there's a lot of sunlight
every single day with little or no
clouds it also shouldn't be too far away
from too many countries because
exporting the energy over long distances
would make the project even more
expensive hmmm let's say a huge scalding
hot area with as much Sun as you could
ever need and located just across the
sea from Europe you thinking what I'm
thinking right the ser a desert the
largest hot desert in the world seems
like the perfect place to install as
many solar panels as humankind could
need by the latest estimates in fact it
could accommodate more than four times
as many panels as we actually need to
meet our current demands let's break it
down in 2017 people all over the world
used about eighteen terawatts of energy
the Sahara if covered completely in
solar panels would generate 79 terawatts
per year that would cover everything we
need plus some basically it's not even
necessary to install that many solar
panels just a quarter would be more than
enough as an added bonus dr. Yan Li a
researcher from the University of
Illinois explains that a large amount of
these panels in the Sahara would benefit
the desert climate too stay with me here
it gets a little complicated
the color of the sand there is quite
light so it reflects a lot of sunlight
back into the atmosphere so dark-colored
solar panels would make the surface take
in more of the Sun increasing the
grounds temperature that in turn will
lead to warmer air rising up mixing with
cooler air condensing and then coming
back down as any guesses rainfall
exactly eventually the Sahara would turn
from an arid desert into a savanna or
even a blooming garden whoa the Sahara
Botanical Garden I like the sound of
that
or maybe the Sahara rainforest I don't
know leave me your own suggestions in
the comments so what's the deal why
aren't we there yet
happily hauling solar panels to the
desert well to start with it only sounds
like a perfect plan on paper when you
get to actually carrying it out that's
when the real trouble begins
first and foremost how would you
transport all this energy across the
world okay the most logical thing to do
is to get it to Africa itself in Europe
since they're the closest to the source
but there's still the issue of
transporting solar energy across the sea
which would be no easy feat to say the
least no power lines wouldn't need to be
built and brand-new infrastructure would
have to be introduced and I don't know
if you could transport this solar energy
from the Sahara all the way to the
Americas sorry guys anyway add all that
to the cost of installing the panels and
you'd be looking at hundreds of billions
of dollars in investment maybe European
countries could handle such costs but
the same can't be said for a lot of
African nations solar energy could bring
in immense benefits to them but a large
majority just wouldn't be able to afford
it expenses assigned though there's also
the question of working with local
leaders you see the Sahara belongs to
several countries at once so to build
anything at all there you need
permission from all of them of course
you'd think everyone would see what good
such a project brings so there shouldn't
be any trouble negotiating
but nevertheless problems can arise when
it comes to working with local
authorities maybe an example will help
make it clearer for instance one country
says sure you're allowed passage through
my territory you work together for
several months when let's say a
different person takes over the country
as does happen hopefully they continue
working with you like their predecessor
did but that's not guaranteed if they
don't you're once again thrown back to
the negotiation stage and you can't go
through the territories previously
agreed upon naturally the supply chain
is broken and what's worse you might not
even reach a new agreement at all maybe
this country has changed their mind
about the whole project that of course
would be a huge risk especially assuming
a bunch of money has already been put
into this thing but hey let's look at
the bright side yeah even if it seems
impossible or super risky at the moment
why can't we at least hope it'll happen
someday I mean a greener Sahara and a
greener world thanks to all this
renewable energy are definitely worth
fighting for
plus you never know they might come up
with a super innovative way to make this
thing a reality that you and I never
even imagined so do you think it's high
time we switched to solar energy or do
you think the future lies in another
source let me know down in the comments
remember to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click that
subscribe button to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]
you